[FLINK-32082][docs] Documentation of checkpoint file-merging (#24766)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/dev/datastream/fault-tolerance/checkpointing.md

without waiting for periodic triggering, but the job will need to wait for this final checkpoint 
to be completed.

## Unify file merging mechanism for checkpoints

> Flink 1.20 introduces a unified file merging mechanism for checkpointing, which allows scattered small checkpoint files 

Reviewer: Is it a mvp or production ready in Flink 1.20 ?
We'd better to describe it if it's a mvp.

> which allows scattered small checkpoint files to be written into a single file, reducing the number of file creations 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which allows scattered small checkpoint files to be written into larger files, reducing the number of file creations 
```

and file deletions, helping to alleviate the pressure of file system metadata management and file flooding problem. 

> The unified fie merging mechanism can be enabled by setting the property `state.checkpoints.file-merging.enabled` to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The mechanism can be enabled by setting `state.checkpoints.file-merging.enabled` to `true`.
```

> **Note** that enabling this mechanism may lead to space amplification, that is, the actual occupation on the file system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note** that as a trade-off, enabling this mechanism may lead to space amplification, that is, the actual occupation on the file system
```

> that is, the actual occupation on the file system will be larger than the checkpoint size. `state.checkpoints.file-merging.max-space-amplification` 

Reviewer: IIUC, the metric of checkpoint size should be consistent, right ?
If It's compared with before or acutal state, let's adjust it as `before checkpoint size` or `actual state size`.

Author: Right, thanks for the suggestion, I adjusted it as `actual state size`.

can be used to limit the upper bound of space amplification.

This mechanism is applicable to all types of state files in Flink, including keyed state, operator state, channel state 

> and changelog DSTL files. Subtask level granular merging is provided for shared scope state; TaskManager-level granular merging 

Reviewer: some unsupported types, e.g. DSTL files could be removed for now or listed as a limitation ?

provided for shared scope state; TaskManager-level granular merging is provided for private scope state. The maximum number of subtasks
allowed to be written to a single file can be configured through the `state.checkpoints.file-merging.max-subtasks-per-file` option.

> The unified fie merging mechanism also supports file merging across checkpoints, which can be enabled by setting
> `state.checkpoints.file-merging.across-checkpoint-boundary` to `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature also supports merging files across checkpoints. To enable this, set 
`state.checkpoints.file-merging.across-checkpoint-boundary` to `true`.
```

> This mechanism introduces a file pool to handle concurrent writing scenarios. The blocking mode can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mechanism introduces a file pool to handle concurrent writing scenarios. There are two modes....... The blocking mode...... while the non-blocking modes...... . This can be configured via ``.
```
Add some description to mode? instead of talking about enabling the option.

The mechanism can be enabled by setting `state.checkpoints.file-merging.enabled` to `true`.
**Note** that as a trade-off, enabling this mechanism may lead to space amplification, that is, the actual occupation on the file system
will be larger than actual state size. `state.checkpoints.file-merging.max-space-amplification` 
can be used to limit the upper bound of space amplification.

This mechanism is applicable to keyed state, operator state and channel state in Flink. Merging at subtask level is 
provided for shared scope state; Merging at TaskManager level is provided for private scope state. The maximum number of subtasks
allowed to be written to a single file can be configured through the `state.checkpoints.file-merging.max-subtasks-per-file` option.

This feature also supports merging files across checkpoints. To enable this, set
`state.checkpoints.file-merging.across-checkpoint-boundary` to `true`.

This mechanism introduces a file pool to handle concurrent writing scenarios. There are two modes, the non-blocking mode will 
always provide usable physical file without blocking when receive a file request, it may create many physical files if poll 

> file frequently; while the blocking mode will be blocked until there are returned files available in the file pool. This can be configured via 
> `state.checkpoints.file-merging.pool-blocking`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
file frequently; while the blocking mode will be blocked until there are returned files available in the file pool. This can be configured via
setting `state.checkpoints.file-merging.pool-blocking` as `true` for blocking or `false` for non-blocking.
```
